https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/focuses/2802?parent=catalog

Task 1. The basics of SQL
Databases and tables
As mentioned earlier, SQL allows you to get information from "structured datasets". Structured datasets have clear rules and formatting and often times are organized into tables, or data that's formatted in rows and columns.

An example of unstructured data would be an image file. Unstructured data is inoperable with SQL and cannot be stored in BigQuery datasets or tables (at least natively.) To work with image data (for instance), you would use a service like Cloud Vision, perhaps through its API directly.

A Database is essentially a collection of one or more tables. SQL is a structured database management tool, but quite often (and in this lab) you will be running queries on one or a few tables joined together—not on whole databases.

## SELECT and FROM
SQL is phonetic by nature and before running a query, it's always helpful to first figure out what question you want to ask your data (unless you're just exploring for fun.)

SQL has predefined keywords which you use to translate your question into the pseudo-english SQL syntax so you can get the database engine to return the answer you want.

The most essential keywords are SELECT and FROM:

Use SELECT to specify what fields you want to pull from your dataset.
Use FROM to specify what table or tables we want to pull our data from.

And let's say that we want to just pull the data that's found in the USER column. We can do this by running the following query that uses SELECT and FROM:

SELECT USER FROM example_table
Copied!
If we executed the above command, we would select all the names from the USER column that are found in example_table.

You can also select multiple columns with the SQL SELECT keyword. Say that you want to pull the data that's found in the USER and SHIPPED columns. To do this, modify the previous query by adding another column value to our SELECT query (making sure it's separated by a comma!):

SELECT USER, SHIPPED FROM example_table
Copied!
Running the above retrieves the USER and the SHIPPED data from memory:



## WHERE
The WHERE keyword is another SQL command that filters tables for specific column values. Say that you want to pull the names from example_table whose packages were shipped. You can supplement the query with a WHERE, like the following:


Task 2. Exploring the BigQuery console
The BigQuery paradigm
BigQuery is a fully-managed petabyte-scale data warehouse that runs on the Google Cloud. Data analysts and data scientists can quickly query and filter large datasets, aggregate results, and perform complex operations without having to worry about setting up and managing servers. It comes in the form of a command line tool (pre installed in cloudshell) or a web console—both ready for managing and querying data housed in Google Cloud projects.

In this lab, you use the web console to run SQL queries.

Open the BigQuery console
In the Google Cloud Console, select Navigation menu > BigQuery.
The Welcome to BigQuery in the Cloud Console message box opens. This message box provides a link to the quickstart guide and the release notes.

Click Done.
The BigQuery console opens.

Take a moment to note some important features of the UI. The right-hand side of the console houses the query "Editor". This is where you write and run SQL commands like the examples we covered earlier. Below that is "Query history", which is a list of queries you ran previously.

The left pane of the console is the "Navigation panel". Apart from the self-explanatory query history, saved queries, and job history, there is the Explorer tab.

The highest level of resources in the Explorer tab contain Google Cloud projects, which are just like the temporary Google Cloud projects you sign into and use with each Google Cloud Skills Boost lab. As you can see in your console and in the last screenshot, we only have our project housed in the Explorer tab. If you try clicking on the arrow next to the project name, nothing will show up.

This is because your project contains no datasets or tables, you have nothing that can be queried. Earlier you learned datasets contain tables. When you add data to your project, note that in BigQuery, projects contain datasets, and datasets contain tables. Now that you better understand the project > dataset > table paradigm and the intricacies of the console, you can load up some queryable data.

Uploading queryable data
In this section you pull in some public data into your project so you can practice running SQL commands in BigQuery.

Click on + ADD DATA

Choose Star a project by name > Star a project.

Enter project name as bigquery-public-data

Click the STAR button.

It's important to note that you are still working out of your lab project in this new tab. All you did was pull a publicly accessible project that contains datasets and tables into BigQuery for analysis — you didn't switch over to that project. All of your jobs and services are still tied to your Google Cloud Skills Boost account. You can see this for yourself by inspecting the project field near the top of the console:


In the search bar, enter London Bicycles Hires and click VIEW DATASET.

You now have access to the following data:

Google Cloud Project → bigquery-public-data

Dataset → london_bicycles

Click on the london bicycles dataset to reveal the associated tables

Table → cycle_hire
Table → cycle_stations
In this lab we will use the data from cycle_hire. Open the cycle_hire table, then click the Preview tab. 





Task 5. Create a Cloud SQL instance
In the console, select Navigation menu > SQL.

Click CREATE INSTANCE > Choose MySQL .

Enter instance id as qwiklabs-demo

Enter a secure password in the Password field (remember it!)

Select the database version as MySQL 5.7.

Set the Multi zones (Highly available) field as us-west1

Click CREATE INSTANCE.

It might take a few minutes for the instance to be created. Once it is, you will see a green checkmark next to the instance name.

Click on the Cloud SQL instance. The SQL Overview page opens.

