# Visualize the 10,000 Bitcoin Pizza Transaction Using BigQuery and Vertex AI Workbench

# Task 1. Launch Vertex Workbench Notebook
To create and launch a Vertex AI Workbench notebook:

In the Navigation Menu Navigation menu icon, click Vertex AI > Workbench.

On the Workbench page, click New Notebook.

In the Customize instance menu, select TensorFlow Enterprise and choose the latest version of TensorFlow Enterprise 2.x (with LTS) > Without GPUs.

Name the notebook.

Set Region to us-central1 and Zone to any zone within the designated region.

In the Notebook properties, click the pencil icon pencil icon to edit the instance properties.

Scroll down to Machine configuration and select e2-standard-2 for Machine type.

Leave the remaining fields at their default and click Create.

After a few minutes, the Workbench page lists your instance, followed by Open JupyterLab.

Click Open JupyterLab to open JupyterLab in a new tab.
Wait for the notebook instance to start, this takes a few minutes.

# Task 2. Load the data

To clone the training-data-analyst repository in your JupyterLab instance:

1. In JupyterLab, click the Terminal icon to open a new terminal.

2. At the command-line prompt, type the following command and press ENTER:
git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/training-data-analyst
Copied!
3. To confirm that you have cloned the repository, in the left panel, double click the training-data-analyst folder to see its contents.


# Task 3. Open the notebook
1. Open training-data-analyst > blogs > bitcoin_network > visualizing_the_10000_pizza_bitcoin_network.ipynb.

2. In the notebook interface, click on Edit > Clear All Outputs.

3. Read through the notebook and execute the code to perform the data extraction, cleanup, and visualization.

